User Interfaces
* User mobile interfaces
   1. Login screen: initial screen of the mobile application for the registered user. It allows the user to log in to PowerEnJoy and to sign up if he is not registered yet.
   2. Main user menu screen: the main menu of the mobile application for the registered user. It allows the user to go to the screen where he can find and reserve available cars, or to unlock a car that he previously reserved.
   3. Find available cars screen: the screen through which the registered user can find available cars and reserve them. It features a map that uses Google Maps API to let the user search for an address or use his GPS position in order to center the map on that position and show all the available cars in the city. By clicking on a car, a pop up that shows all car’s info and allows the user to reserve it opens.
   4. Notifications: at the end of the ride, the user receives a notification on his mobile device, where he is informed about the charge he will pay and the discount applied.
* Operator mobile interfaces
   1. Main operator menu screen: the main menu of the mobile application for the operator. It allows the operator to go to the screen where he can find unavailable cars and set one of them as under maintenance, or to set back to available a car that he fixed.
   2. Find unavailable cars screen: the screen through which the operator can find unavailable cars in the city area and set one of them as under maintenance. It features a map that uses Google Maps API to let the operator see all unavailable cars in the city. By clicking on a car, a pop up that shows all car’s info and the problem that occurred opens.
* Car screen interface
   1. Map screen: the main screen in the car screen interface. It features a map that uses Google Maps API to show the car’s current location and all the safe areas in the city; by clicking on one of them a pop up with all its basic information opens. The top bar contains an address bar through which the user can insert his destination; he can also enable the money saving options through a switch button, if he does so the suggested destination safe area is shown with a marker on the map. The top bar contains information about the riding time and the current charges as well. In the bar to the bottom of the screen there are two buttons to terminate the ride or make a stop.